CREATE TABLE stashtable (
id           INTEGER       NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
time         DATETIME      NOT NULL,
callsign     VARCHAR(20)   NOT NULL,
aliases      VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
dxcc         VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
first_name   VARCHAR(100)   NOT NULL,
last_name    VARCHAR(100)   NOT NULL,
nickname     VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
born         VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
addr1        VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
addr2        VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
state        VARCHAR(20)   NOT NULL,
zip          VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
country      VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
country_code VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
lat          VARCHAR(15)   NOT NULL,
lon          VARCHAR(15)   NOT NULL,
grid         VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
county       VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
fips         VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
land         VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
cqzone       VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
ituzone      VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
geolocation  VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
effdate      VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
expdate      VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
prevcall     VARCHAR(10)   NOT NULL,
class        VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
codes        VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
qslmgr       VARCHAR(20)   NOT NULL,
email        VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
url          VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
views        VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
bio          VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
image        VARCHAR(50)   NOT NULL,
moddate      VARCHAR(30)   NOT NULL,
msa          VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
areacode     VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
timezone     VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
gmtoffset    VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL,
dst          VARCHAR(3)    NOT NULL,
eqsl         VARCHAR(3)    NOT NULL,
mqsl         VARCHAR(3)    NOT NULL,
attn         VARCHAR(20)   NOT NULL,
qso_count    VARCHAR(5)    NOT NULL
);
